getstarted.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Getting started
subtitle: Creating Big Data solutions with Juju
---

# Juju Big Data community

When exploring big data solutions, one of the most daunting tasks users face is
the setup and configuration of these usually complex environments. This can take
from hours to days; time you could spend testing, evaluating, and putting your
big data solutions to good use.

The mission of the Juju big data team is to offer a simple and repeatable
method for deploying big data environments. We've created a "pluggable" model
using Juju charms and bundles to let users focus on the fun part (actually
solving big data problems) without worrying about the intricacies of configuring
core Hadoop services.

This repo serves as our hub for talking about the work we're doing. We'll show
off solutions that provide a solid foundation for interfacing with Hadoop, as
well as extensions to that foundation that make for totally awesome demos.

You'll also find the regular stuff here:  how to contact us and (more
importantly) how to dig in and get involved!


## Code

We have three main focus areas for development. First, we have a library
to help with tasks that are commonly needed when doing big data development.
Next are the Juju charms that model individual big data services. Finally,
we have pre-canned solutions in the form of bundles that tie charms together
for simple and repeatable deployment.

Where useful, we've included a DEV-README.md in our repositories. That
document is meant to guide users interested in extending our generic offerings
for more specific uses. We'll point out the repository locations and
these development documents as we get into the details of our focus areas
below.

### Juju big data library
The `jujubigdata` Python library is an collection of functions and classes for
simplifying the development of big data applications. This includes things like
synchronizing /etc/hosts across a cluster, configuring core-site.xml,
interacting with Hadoop, etc.

 * [repo](https://github.com/juju-solutions/jujubigdata)
 * [issue tracker](https://github.com/juju-solutions/jujubigdata/issues)

### Charms
Charms are at the heart of our development. Each charm models a particular big
data service (e.g.: the HDFS Master, Apache Flume, Hue, etc). Most of our
charm development is in Python and makes use of the Juju big data library
mentioned above.

While helpful as a method to install a service, charms really shine
when you relate them to other services. We'll talk more about that when
we discuss bundles below, but first, here are our current charms:

 * **apache-flume-hdfs** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-flume-hdfs/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-flume-hdfs)\]

   Designed to talk to other Flume agents, this charm will allow you to ingest
   data into HDFS in AVRO format.

 * **apache-flume-syslog** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-flume-syslog/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-flume-syslog)\]

   Syslog comes in, AVRO events go out. Connect to `apache-flume-hdfs` to shove
   those events into HDFS.

 * **apache-flume-twitter** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-flume-twitter/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-flume-twitter)\]

   Tweets comes in, AVRO events go out. Connect to `apache-flume-hdfs` to shove
   those tweets into HDFS (requires Twitter API credentials to access the
   firehose).

 * **apache-hadoop-client** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-client/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-client) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-client/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-client)\]

   Provides an endpoint that plugs into the Hadoop cluster using the
   `apache-hadoop-plugin` subordinate charm. It allows users to manually run
   MapReduce jobs (e.g.: teragen, terasort, etc).

 * **apache-hadoop-compute-slave** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-compute-slave/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-compute-slave) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-compute-slave/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-compute-slave)\]

   Connects to the HDFS and YARN masters to handle dfs and mapreduce tasks.
   See the [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-compute-slave/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-hdfs-master** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master)\]

   Provides the HDFS Master. See the
   [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary)\]

   Provides the Secondary Namenode. See the
   [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-plugin** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-plugin/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-plugin) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-plugin/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-plugin)\]

   A subordinate charm that facilitates communication with the Hadoop cluster.
   This is designed to be deployed alongside our `apache-hadoop-client` charm
   as well as our end-user service charms (e.g.: `apache-hive`, `apache-pig`,
   etc). See the [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-plugin/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-yarn-master** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-yarn-master/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-yarn-master) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-yarn-master/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-yarn-master)\]

   Provides the YARN Master. See the
   [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-yarn-master/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hive** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hive/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hive) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hive/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hive)\]

   Provides sql-like analytics with Hive. This is designed to interact with the
   Hadoop cluster via our `apache-hadoop-plugin` charm.

 * **apache-pig** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-pig/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-pig) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-pig/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-pig)\]

   Provides analytic capabilities using Pig. This is designed to interact with
   the Hadoop cluster via our `apache-hadoop-plugin` charm.

 * **apache-spark** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-spark/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-spark) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-spark/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-spark)\]

   Provides the Spark execution engine, designed to back to a Hadoop cluster.

 * **apache-spark-notebook** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-spark-notebook/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-spark-notebook)\]

   An IPython Notebook service with integrated Spark support.

 * **apache-zeppelin** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-zeppelin/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-zeppelin) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-zeppelin/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-zeppelin)\]

   The Zeppelin notebook service for interacting with a Spark+Hadoop cluster.

### Bundles
Bundles are groups of charms that model a solution. We've come up with a few
that we think the big data community will find useful right away:

 * **apache-core-batch-processing** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-core-batch-processing) |
 [stable bundle](https://jujucharms.com/apache-core-batch-processing)\]

   This bundle deploys a complete Hadoop cluster with 7 units: HDFS Master,
   Yarn Master, Secondary Namenode, three Compute Slaves, and a Client unit
   that is plugged into the cluster and ready to run big data jobs. For anyone
   that wants a Hadoop environment deployed, configured, and ready to do
   work, this is the bundle for you.

   We believe this is a good place to start for users that want to build on
   top of a known-good Hadoop deployment. To that end, we have a [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/bundles/apache-core-batch-processing/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for this bundle that describes how you might want to interact with and
   extend this to meet your needs. You'll notice all of our remaining bundles
   build off this one to showcase more specific solutions.

 * **apache-hadoop-spark** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-spark)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle to provide the Apache Spark execution
   engine.

   * **apache-hadoop-spark-notebook** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-spark-notebook)\]

     Further extending the Spark bundle with IPython Notebook.

   * **apache-hadoop-spark-zeppelin** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-spark-zeppelin)\]

     Further extending the Spark bundle with Apache Zeppelin.

 * **apache-analytics-sql** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-analytics-sql)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle to provide analytic capabilities with
   Apache Hive and MySQL.

 * **apache-analytics-pig** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-analytics-pig)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle to provide analytic capabilities with
   Apache Pig.

 * **apache-ingestion-flume** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-ingestion-flume)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle with ingestion capabilities using Apache
   Flume.


## Media

We have a few presentations, videos, and other bits of media that may be
helpful if you want to see what we're all about.

 * [Ubuntu Online Summit, 04/2015](http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1505/meeting/22428/deploying-big-data-workloads-with-juju/)
 * [Hadoop on OpenPower (part 1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ou5PvHHr6WM)
 * [Hadoop on OpenPower (part 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jzVVm63JjmY)
 * [Hadoop+Spark on OpenPower (part 3)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YGi_dtmpgqw)
 * [Hadoop+Spark on OpenPower (part 4)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nlxjtb1keCE)

## Contributors

* @[asanjar](https://github.com/asanjar) \[[email](mailto:amir.sanjar@canonical.com)\]
* @[johnsca](https://github.com/johnsca) \[[email](mailto:cory.johns@canonical.com)\]
* @[kwmonroe](https://github.com/kwmonroe) \[[email](mailto:kevin.monroe@canonical.com)\]


## Contact

You can find us in `#juju` on `irc.freenode.net`, or feel free to email our list
at <bigdata@lists.ubuntu.com>. We look forward to hearing from you!


## Next Steps

In the future, we'll be providing our design docs and roadmap in an effort to
gather input from real-life big data community members. We'll also provide
resources for contributing to our projects and plans. We hope you'll join us!

Commit message:

wording tweaks to de-duplicate content from the repo README

getstarted.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Getting started
subtitle: Creating Big Data solutions with Juju
---

# Juju Big Data community

When exploring big data solutions, one of the most daunting tasks users face is
the setup and configuration of these usually complex environments. This can take
from hours to days; time you could spend testing, evaluating, and putting your
big data solutions to good use.

The mission of the Juju Big Data team is to offer a simple and repeatable
method for deploying big data environments. We've created a "pluggable" model
using Juju charms and bundles to let users focus on the fun part (actually
solving big data problems) without worrying about the intricacies of configuring
core Hadoop services.

This post provides an overview of the foundation we've built for interfacing
with Hadoop, as well as extensions to that foundation that make for totally
awesome demos. You'll also find a few videos related to our work and of course,
how to contact us!


## Code

We have three main focus areas for development. First, we have a library
to help with tasks that are commonly needed when doing big data development.
Next are the Juju charms that model individual big data services. Finally,
we have pre-canned solutions in the form of bundles that tie charms together
for simple and repeatable deployment.

Where useful, we've included a DEV-README.md in our repositories. That
document is meant to guide users interested in extending our generic offerings
for more specific uses. We'll point out the repository locations and
these development documents as we get into the details of our focus areas
below.

### Juju big data library
The `jujubigdata` Python library is an collection of functions and classes for
simplifying the development of big data applications. This includes things like
synchronizing /etc/hosts across a cluster, configuring core-site.xml,
interacting with Hadoop, etc.

 * [repo](https://github.com/juju-solutions/jujubigdata)
 * [issue tracker](https://github.com/juju-solutions/jujubigdata/issues)

### Charms
Charms are at the heart of our development. Each charm models a particular big
data service (e.g.: the HDFS Master, Apache Flume, Hue, etc). Most of our
charm development is in Python and makes use of the Juju big data library
mentioned above.

While helpful as a method to install a service, charms really shine
when you relate them to other services. We'll talk more about that when
we discuss bundles below, but first, here are our current charms:

 * **apache-flume-hdfs** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-flume-hdfs/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-flume-hdfs)\]

   Designed to talk to other Flume agents, this charm will allow you to ingest
   data into HDFS in AVRO format.

 * **apache-flume-syslog** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-flume-syslog/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-flume-syslog)\]

   Syslog comes in, AVRO events go out. Connect to `apache-flume-hdfs` to shove
   those events into HDFS.

 * **apache-flume-twitter** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-flume-twitter/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-flume-twitter)\]

   Tweets comes in, AVRO events go out. Connect to `apache-flume-hdfs` to shove
   those tweets into HDFS (requires Twitter API credentials to access the
   firehose).

 * **apache-hadoop-client** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-client/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-client) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-client/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-client)\]

   Provides an endpoint that plugs into the Hadoop cluster using the
   `apache-hadoop-plugin` subordinate charm. It allows users to manually run
   MapReduce jobs (e.g.: teragen, terasort, etc).

 * **apache-hadoop-compute-slave** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-compute-slave/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-compute-slave) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-compute-slave/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-compute-slave)\]

   Connects to the HDFS and YARN masters to handle dfs and mapreduce tasks.
   See the [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-compute-slave/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-hdfs-master** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master)\]

   Provides the HDFS Master. See the
   [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-master/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary)\]

   Provides the Secondary Namenode. See the
   [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-hdfs-secondary/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-plugin** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-plugin/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-plugin) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-plugin/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-plugin)\]

   A subordinate charm that facilitates communication with the Hadoop cluster.
   This is designed to be deployed alongside our `apache-hadoop-client` charm
   as well as our end-user service charms (e.g.: `apache-hive`, `apache-pig`,
   etc). See the [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-plugin/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hadoop-yarn-master** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-yarn-master/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-yarn-master) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-yarn-master/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hadoop-yarn-master)\]

   Provides the YARN Master. See the
   [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hadoop-yarn-master/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for details about this charm's interfaces.

 * **apache-hive** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-hive/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hive) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-hive/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-hive)\]

   Provides sql-like analytics with Hive. This is designed to interact with the
   Hadoop cluster via our `apache-hadoop-plugin` charm.

 * **apache-pig** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-pig/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-pig) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-pig/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-pig)\]

   Provides analytic capabilities using Pig. This is designed to interact with
   the Hadoop cluster via our `apache-hadoop-plugin` charm.

 * **apache-spark** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-spark/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-spark) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-spark/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-spark)\]

   Provides the Spark execution engine, designed to back to a Hadoop cluster.

 * **apache-spark-notebook** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-spark-notebook/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-spark-notebook)\]

   An IPython Notebook service with integrated Spark support.

 * **apache-zeppelin** \[[dev repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/trusty/apache-zeppelin/trunk) |
 [dev charm](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-zeppelin) |
 [stable repo](https://code.launchpad.net/~bigdata-charmers/charms/trusty/apache-zeppelin/trunk) |
 [stable charm](https://jujucharms.com/apache-zeppelin)\]

   The Zeppelin notebook service for interacting with a Spark+Hadoop cluster.

### Bundles
Bundles are groups of charms that model a solution. We've come up with a few
that we think the big data community will find useful right away:

 * **apache-core-batch-processing** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-core-batch-processing) |
 [stable bundle](https://jujucharms.com/apache-core-batch-processing)\]

   This bundle deploys a complete Hadoop cluster with 7 units: HDFS Master,
   Yarn Master, Secondary Namenode, three Compute Slaves, and a Client unit
   that is plugged into the cluster and ready to run big data jobs. For anyone
   that wants a Hadoop environment deployed, configured, and ready to do
   work, this is the bundle for you.

   We believe this is a good place to start for users that want to build on
   top of a known-good Hadoop deployment. To that end, we have a [DEV-README](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~bigdata-dev/charms/bundles/apache-core-batch-processing/trunk/view/head:/DEV-README.md)
   for this bundle that describes how you might want to interact with and
   extend this to meet your needs. You'll notice all of our remaining bundles
   build off this one to showcase more specific solutions.

 * **apache-hadoop-spark** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-spark)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle to provide the Apache Spark execution
   engine.

   * **apache-hadoop-spark-notebook** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-spark-notebook)\]

     Further extending the Spark bundle with IPython Notebook.

   * **apache-hadoop-spark-zeppelin** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-hadoop-spark-zeppelin)\]

     Further extending the Spark bundle with Apache Zeppelin.

 * **apache-analytics-sql** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-analytics-sql)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle to provide analytic capabilities with
   Apache Hive and MySQL.

 * **apache-analytics-pig** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-analytics-pig)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle to provide analytic capabilities with
   Apache Pig.

 * **apache-ingestion-flume** \[[dev bundle](https://jujucharms.com/u/bigdata-dev/apache-ingestion-flume)\]

   Extending the core Hadoop bundle with ingestion capabilities using Apache
   Flume.


## Media

We have a few presentations, videos, and other bits of media that may be
helpful if you want to see what we're all about.

 * [Ubuntu Online Summit, 04/2015](http://summit.ubuntu.com/uos-1505/meeting/22428/deploying-big-data-workloads-with-juju/)
 * [Hadoop on OpenPower (part 1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ou5PvHHr6WM)
 * [Hadoop on OpenPower (part 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jzVVm63JjmY)
 * [Hadoop+Spark on OpenPower (part 3)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YGi_dtmpgqw)
 * [Hadoop+Spark on OpenPower (part 4)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nlxjtb1keCE)


## Contact

You can find us in `#juju` on `irc.freenode.net`, or feel free to email our
list at <bigdata@lists.ubuntu.com>. We look forward to hearing from you!


## Next Steps

In the future, we'll be providing our design docs and roadmap in an effort to
gather input from big data community members. We'll also provide resources for
contributing to our projects and plans. We hope you'll join us!
